---
layout: post
title: Genesis
---

While reading through [De Officiis](https://www.amazon.com/Obligations-Officiis-Oxford-Worlds-Classics/dp/0199540713){:target="_blank"},
I was impressed by Cicero's ability to articulate and convey his ideas in
such a concise and elegant manner. His writing style is short-and-sweet, lacking superfluous detail.  

Simultaneously, I became conscious of my ineptitude in that regard.
When I'm not careful and speak without contemplation,
I end up [stuttering like a bumbling idiot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k4ZNp9jKsps){:target="_blank"}
and fail to formulate and convey a coherent argument.

It's important to clarify that the problem I'm describing here is greater than
just finding the _right words_ to express a particular idea --
The problem is that of organizing thought fragments into ideas,
forming a series of related ideas into an argument, and weaving that argument
into the context of a conversation, ALL THE WHILE using appropriate language so as to
ensure that your ideas are not misconstrued.

[Here is an example](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhOqZVeaRZs&t=224){:target="_blank"}  

Pay close attention to what Echo says to Jocko at around 3:45

> "When you talk, it. like..., you're not saying fluff you know... when you talk it's like something."

"when you talk **it**'s like **something**". What is "**something**"? What is "**it**"?  

This is what Echo was trying to say:

> "When you speak, you do so with purpose -- there's no fluff obscuring the point you're trying to make."

**something** = "the point you're trying to make". **it** = "the act of speaking with purpose"

Echo failed at Step (1). He didn't organize his thought fragments and got lost
**trying to speak before he had completed his thought**.
His statement wasn't **impactful** because he left us with the ingredients of a thought, and we
had to do the work of putting those ingredients together. Your audience does not want to work
to understand what you're trying to say. The key to elegant speech is to paint
a picture in which your ideas are obvious -- your audience should not have to decipher your words,
nor should they have to fill in any gaps in your argument.

One of the reasons I'm starting this blog is to practice organizing and conveying ideas. As a programmer,
I don't do this nearly as often as I ought to. I will elaborate on this in future posts.

